# Conversion_of_biological_sequence_into_image_using_CA_model
This experiment is based on a research paper named "Using cellular automata to generate image representation for biological sequences". When I was reading this paper I tried to find the code for this paper but I was unable to find it. So, I tried to code to replicate the paper's idea. For more details please read the README.md file.
This paper is open source.
I converted the gene sequence into binary sequence by using the following rules - 
  - The 4 kinds of bases are arranged in an order according to the molecular weight: C=111.1, U=112.1, A=135.13, G=151.13, so the code is 0123/CUAG. So, to preserve the symmetry within    	complementary and stationary of RNA coding strands, the representation of four nucleotide bases by binary notation is followed as given below:
	1. Pyrimidines(Y) : 0(00)C and 2(10)U
	2. Purines(R) : 1(01)A and 3(11)G
  - The code 0123/CUAG can reflect the chemical properties of 4 kinds of bases. The first digit in binary coding of the base is called a structural encoding bit. In the case of Pyrimidines(Y), the first digit of the binary code is 0 and in Purines(R) it is 1. The end digit is the encoding bit for the functional gene group 1 denotes the keto group and 0 denotes the amino group.

Second I code for the CA model to generate images corresponding to the gene sequences. 
Third I code a program to compress the images into different ratios.

This repository includes the following files -

Using_cellular_automata_to_generate_image_representation_for_biological_sequences.pdf : The research paper based on which the whole experiment is been done. (link to download: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00726-004-0154-9)
gene_sequence_into_image.py: Python code for generate an image from gene sequence by using a CA model. 
image_compression.py: Python code for compress image 
AB059661.1.fna: Hepatitis B virus C gene (link to download: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/?term=AB059661)
AB059661_imege.png: the image of the gene sequence generated by our CA.
AB059661_resize_imege.png: 2:2 Compressed form of AB059661_imege.png 


* On the Python program files in the comments I have tried to explain each line of code as much as possible.  
